\input texinfo
@documentencoding UTF-8

@ifnottex
@paragraphindent 0
@end ifnottex
@node Top
@top Top

@menu
* R-autoyas::
@end menu

@node R-autoyas
@chapter R-autoyas
Sven Hartenstein & Matthew L. Fidler ## Library Information @strong{r-autoyas.el} --- Provides automatically created yasnippets for R function argument lists.

@itemize
@item
@strong{Filename} -- r-autoyas.el
@item
@strong{Description} -- r-autoyas is a small ESS complement. It provides automatically created yasnippets for R function argument lists.
@item
@strong{Author} -- Sven Hartenstein & Matthew Fidler
@item
@strong{Maintainer} -- Matthew Fidler
@item
@strong{Created} -- Fri Mar 25 10:36:08 2011 (-0500)

@item
@strong{Version} -- 0.27
@item
@strong{Last-Updated} -- Mon Jun 25 15:12:20 2012 (-0500)
@item
@strong{By} -- Matthew L. Fidler
@item
@strong{Update #} -- 873

@item
@strong{URL} -- https:__github.com_mlf176f2_r-autoyas.el
@item
@strong{Keywords} -- R yasnippet Compatibility:

@end itemize

@menu
* About::
* Requirements::
* Limitations::
* Wish-List/To-Do::
* History::
@end menu

@node About
@section About
r-autoyas is a small ESS complement. It provides automatically created yasnippets for R function argument lists.

@node Requirements
@section Requirements
The following are needed: - yasnippet https:__github.com_capitaomorte_yasnippet - R & ESS - R process must be running. ## Usage - To expand the snipped type the function name and them press @code{TAB}. - To jump from field to feild press @code{TAB}. If you did not change the field@comma{} the parameter will be deleted from this list - To exit the snipped and delete remaining arguments@comma{} press @code{C-g} ## Options This is an incomplete list of user definable options. The complete list can be retrieved by @code{M-x customize-group r-autoyas} ### Debugging Debugging messages can be put on-screen. This is done by

(setq r-autoyas-debug t)
@menu
* Sending a  replacement to R via emacs instead of by a global options statement::
* Specifying the ' replacement via the R options statement    Emacs can change the functions' replacement through lisp The::
@end menu

@node Sending a  replacement to R via emacs instead of by a global options statement
@subsection Sending a ... replacement to R via emacs instead of by a global options statement
Uses Lisp-based dot-replacement defined by `r-autoyas-r-based-dot-replacement' instead of specifying through options in R startup. This is on by default but can be turned off by

(setq r-autoyas-use-r-based-dot-replacement nil)

@node Specifying the ' replacement via the R options statement    Emacs can change the functions' replacement through lisp The
@subsection Specifying the @code{...' replacement via the R options() statement    Emacs can change the functions}...' replacement through lisp. The
easiest way to change this is@comma{} typing:

@code{M-x customize-variable r-autoyas-r-based-dot-replacement} ### Using functions within a namespace only By default@comma{} R-autoyas only expands predefined functions in namespaces/package that are loaded in R. This ignores any user-defined functions. However@comma{} R-autoyas may be used to expand user-defined functions as well. This is done with the @code{r-autoyas-expand-package-functions-only} variable. To turn on r-autoyas's expansion of user-defined functions@comma{} the following code may be used:

(setq r-autoyas-expand-package-functions-only nil)

This variable may also be customized.

@node Limitations
@section Limitations
@itemize
@item
No nice error handling when no R process is found
@item
Partial nested support -- not perfected ## Loading r-autoyas in ~/.emacs You may use marmalade-repo and ELPA to install r-autoyas (http:__marmalade-repo.org/)@comma{} or put it into your load-path and put the following in ~/.emacs
@end itemize

(require 'r-autoyas) (add hook 'ess-mode-hook 'r-autoyas-ess-activate)

@node Wish-List/To-Do
@section Wish-List/To-Do

@node History
@section History
@itemize
@item
@strong{13-Sep-2012} -- Did not catch yas--update-mirrors. Need to fix this. ()
@item
@strong{12-Sep-2012} -- Have attempted to make r-autoyas compatible with yasnippet 0.8. This will possibly address github issue #4 ()
@item
@strong{04-Jun-2012} -- Bug fix for autopair-mode (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{04-Jun-2012} -- Changed syntax table for yas/expand so that write.csv will expand if you have a snippet named csv. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{04-Jun-2012} -- Bug fix for autopair. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{07-May-2012} -- Changed the syntax table for @code{r-autoyas-expand} so that when a snippet @code{csv} is defined and you expand at write.csv@comma{} write.csv will be expanded instead of @code{csv} (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{02-Feb-2012} -- This package no longer auto-loads. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{29-Nov-2011} -- Change the @strong{r-autoyas} buffer to be hidden (ie " @strong{r-autoyas}") (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{18-Nov-2011} -- Added gihub URL (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{17-Nov-2011} -- Fixed @code{called-interactively-p} to have a single argument. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{17-Nov-2011} -- Added which to the default ignored parenthetical statements (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{17-Nov-2011} -- Fixed @code{r-autoyas-defined-p} (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{17-Nov-2011} -- Added Forward compatablilty for (interactive-p) (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{17-Nov-2011} -- Changed the order of r-autoyas alais of old (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-Nov-2011} -- Changed ignored expressions to only be ignore when using a parenthesis@comma{} and added more ignored expressions (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-Nov-2011} -- Updated to have better wrapping after exiting a snippet. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{08-Jun-2011} -- A partial fix for noweb (Rnw) (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{06-Jun-2011} -- Small update to fix lisp-based replacements. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{06-Jun-2011} -- Added a bug-fix for complex language statements like reshape. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Bug Fixes for cached snippets. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Added wrapping capaibilites to code. Currently only works on Ctl-G. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Added option to remove explicit parameter names for functions if not needed. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Allow autopair backspace to delete autostarted template. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Changed language constructs to make sure its not a default text. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Changed quoting method to fix read.table() (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{16-May-2011} -- Removed if (grepl('@comma{} '@comma{} str@comma{} fixed=TRUE)) str <- sub('@comma{} '@comma{} ''@comma{} str); from R code to fix write.table() (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{26-Apr-2011} -- Now when using Control-G to exit snippets@comma{} it will not delete anything inside the snippet. For example@comma{} using ls(name=".txt|"@comma{}...) where the cursor is at |@comma{} pressing Cntrl-G (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{26-Apr-2011} -- Added a space to try to fix the strange duplication issues. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{25-Apr-2011} -- Bug fix for nested auto-expansion using (. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{21-Apr-2011} -- Tried to fix the autobrackets in r-auotyas. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{15-Apr-2011} -- Bugfix for ess-eval-linewise option (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{15-Apr-2011} -- Fixed autopair bug. (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{15-Apr-2011} -- Changed @code{r-autoyas-inject-commnads} to use @code{ess-eval-linewise} in mering with Svens' version. (Its an option) (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{11-Apr-2011} -- (Matthew L. Fidler)
@item
@strong{10-Apr-2011} -- 09-Apr-2011 Added autoload. ()
@item
@strong{09-Apr-2011} -- 30-Mar-2011 Matthew L. Fidler Attempted to allow nested expansion@comma{} as well as changing the mechanism of Yasnippet expansion. ()
@item
@strong{25-Mar-2011} -- (Matthew L. Fidler)
@end itemize

@bye
